Early Years Page - WIP (#347)
DFE-Digital/get-into-teaching-content: content/early-years-teaching-training.md

        Funding available: "No"
        Length of training: "3 months"
        Qualification: "Early Years Teacher Status"
      - "Graduate Assessment-Only training"
---

## Become an early years teacher
 
As an early years teacher, you'll work with young children up to the age of 5. Your input will have a lasting and positive effect on their development and wellbeing.
 
By training to be an early years teacher, you’ll use your knowledge and skills to help young children enjoy high standards of teaching. 

The early years are critical in children's development. You’ll be opening their minds to new ideas every day.
 
###How to become an early years teacher
 
You’ll need to achieve Early Years Teacher Status (EYTS). This is different from Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), which is the equivalent for teaching children aged 3 to 18. 

Your training will enable you to meet the [Teachers’ Standards (Early Years)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/early-years-teachers-standards).
 
To start early years teacher training, you’ll need these qualifications (or to demonstrate an equivalent standard):

* Maths grade 4 (C)
* English grade 4 (C)
* Science grade 4 (C)

> Graduate training also requires a 2:2 bachelor’s degree with honours or higher.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do postgraduate teacher training, you'll need a 2:2 bachelor’s degree with honours or higher.
```

 
[Contact one of our early years training providers to apply for a place](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/early-years-initial-teacher-training-itt-providers-and-school-direct-early-years-lead-organisations/early-years-initial-teacher-training-itt-providers-and-school-direct-lead-organisations).

## Ways to train

$EY-undergraduate$

A full-time bachelor’s degree leading to EYTS for those studying for a degree in an early childhood-related subject. Tuition fee loans are available from [Student Finance England
(SFE)](https://www.gov.uk/student-finance).

$EY-graduate$
 

> There are also bursaries available of up to £5,000 for graduates with a first class degree, £4,000 for graduates with a 2:1, and £2,000 for graduates with a 2:2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bursaries are available, including:

 * £5,000 if you have a first class degree
 * £4,000 if you have a 2:1 degree
 * £2,000 if you have a 2:2 degree
```

> There are also bursaries available of up to £5000 for graduates with a first class degree, £4000 for graduates with a 2:1, and £2000 for graduates with a 2:2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are also bursaries available of up to £5,000 for graduates with a first class degree, £4,000 for graduates with a 2:1, and £2,000 for graduates with a 2:2.
```

        Salary: "Provided by employer"
        Funding available: "Yes"
        Length of training: "Typically 1 academic year"
        Qualification: "Early Years Teacher Status"
      - "Graduate employment-based early years teacher training"
  EY-self-funded:
    name: feature_table
    arguments:
      - Cost: "Self-funded"
        Salary: "No"
        Funding available: "No"
        Length of training: "3 months"
        Qualification: "Early Years Teacher Status"
      - "Graduate Assessment-Only training"
---

## Become an early years teacher
 
As an early years teacher, you'll work with young children up to the age of 5. Your input will have a lasting and positive effect on their development and wellbeing.
 
By training to be an early years teacher, you’ll use your knowledge and skills to help young children enjoy high standards of teaching. 

The early years are critical in children's development. You’ll be opening their minds to new ideas every day.
 
###How to become an early years teacher
 
You’ll need to achieve Early Years Teacher Status (EYTS). This is different from Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), which is the equivalent for teaching children aged 3 to 18. 

> Your training will enable you to meet the [Teachers’ Standards (Early Years)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/early-years-teachers-standards).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your training will enable you to meet the [early years teachers' standards](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/early-years-teachers-standards).
```

 
To start early years teacher training, you’ll need these qualifications (or to demonstrate an equivalent standard):

* Maths grade 4 (C)
* English grade 4 (C)
* Science grade 4 (C)

> If you do postgraduate teacher training, you'll need a 2:2 bachelor’s degree with honours or higher.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do postgraduate early years teacher training, you'll need a 2:2 bachelor’s degree with honours or higher.
```

 
[Contact one of our early years training providers to apply for a place](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/early-years-initial-teacher-training-itt-providers-and-school-direct-early-years-lead-organisations/early-years-initial-teacher-training-itt-providers-and-school-direct-lead-organisations).

## Ways to train

$EY-undergraduate$

> A full-time bachelor’s degree in an early childhood-related subject leading to EYTS. [Tuition fee loans are available from Student Finance England

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A full-time bachelor’s degree in an early childhood-related subject leading to EYTS. [Undergraduate tuition fee loans are available from Student Finance England
```

> A full-time bachelor’s degree leading to EYTS for those studying for a degree in an early childhood-related subject. Tuition fee loans are available from [Student Finance England

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A full-time bachelor’s degree in an early childhood-related subject leading to EYTS. [Tuition fee loans are available from Student Finance England
```

(SFE)](https://www.gov.uk/student-finance).

$EY-graduate$
 
Bursaries are available, including:

 * £5,000 if you have a first class degree
 * £4,000 if you have a 2:1 degree
 * £2,000 if you have a 2:2 degree
 
$EY-graduate-employment$

> This one-year part-time route is for graduates working in an early years setting who need further training to meet the Teachers’ Standards (Early Years). Funding of up to £14,000 is available. This would cover course fees of up to £7,000, plus £7,000 for your employer, to help cover their extra costs while you train.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This one-year part-time route is for graduates working in an early years setting who need further training to meet the [early years teachers' standards](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/early-years-teachers-standards). Funding of up to £14,000 is available. This would cover course fees of up to £7,000, plus £7,000 for your employer, to help cover their extra costs while you train.
```

$EY-self-funded$ 

> This self-funded route is ideal for graduates with early-years experience. If you already meet the Teachers’ Standards (Early Years), you can gain the qualification without the need for further training. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This self-funded route is ideal for graduates with early-years experience. If you already meet the [early years teachers' standards](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/early-years-teachers-standards), you can gain EYTS without the need for further training. 
```

## Next Steps

> To apply for your early years teacher training place, please contact one of our [training providers](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/early-years-initial-teacher-training-itt-providers-and-school-direct-early-years-lead-organisations/early-years-initial-teacher-training-itt-providers-and-school-direct-lead-organisations).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Contact one of our early years training providers to apply for a place](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/early-years-initial-teacher-training-itt-providers-and-school-direct-early-years-lead-organisations/early-years-initial-teacher-training-itt-providers-and-school-direct-lead-organisations).
```

> You can read more about funding guidance on the [relevant gov.uk page](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/early-years-initial-teacher-training-2021-to-2022-funding-guidance)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Read more about funding](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/early-years-initial-teacher-training-2021-to-2022-funding-guidance)
```

---
title: "Early years teacher training"
image: false
backlink: "../"
keywords:
 - EYITT
 - Early
 - Years
 - Early Years
 - EYTS
 - Early Years Teacher Status
 - Under 5

calls_to_action:
  EY-undergraduate:
    name: feature_table
    arguments:

>       - Cost: "Up to £9250"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Cost: "Up to £9,250"
```

        Salary: "No"
        Funding available: "Yes"
        Length of training: "3 or 4 years"
        Qualification: "Early Years Teacher Status"
      - "Undergraduate early years teacher training"
  EY-graduate:
    name: feature_table
    arguments:

>       - Cost: "£7000"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Cost: "£7,000"
```

        Salary: "No"
        Funding available: "Yes"
        Length of training: "Typically 1 academic year"
        Qualification: "Early Years Teacher Status"
      - "Graduate early years teacher training"     
  EY-graduate-employment:
    name: feature_table
    arguments:

>       - Cost: "£7000"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Cost: "£7,000"
```

        Salary: "Provided by employer"
        Funding available: "Yes"
        Length of training: "Typically 1 academic year"
        Qualification: "Early Years Teacher Status"
      - "Graduate employment-based early years teacher training"
  EY-self-funded:
    name: feature_table
    arguments:
      - Cost: "Self-funded"
        Salary: "No"
        Funding available: "No"
        Length of training: "3 months"
        Qualification: "Early Years Teacher Status"
      - "Graduate Assessment-Only training"
---

> ## Becoming an early years teacher

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Become an early years teacher
```

> As an early years teacher, you will work with young children from birth up to age five. Your input will have a lasting and positive effect on children’s development and wellbeing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an early years teacher, you'll work with young children up to the age of 5. Your input will have a lasting and positive effect on their development and wellbeing.
```

> By training to deliver the Early Years Foundation Stage, you’ll learn how to use your knowledge and skills to help young children enjoy high standards of teaching. These early years are critical for young children’s development, and you’ll be opening their minds to new ideas every day.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By training to be an early years teacher, you’ll use your knowledge and skills to help young children enjoy high standards of teaching. 

The early years are critical in children's development. You’ll be opening their minds to new ideas every day.
```

 
###How to become an early years teacher
 

> To qualify, you’ll need Early Years Teacher Status, which is different from Qualified Teacher Status (the equivalent for teaching children aged three to 18). Your training will enable you to meet the [Teachers’ Standards (Early Years)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/early-years-teachers-standards).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You’ll need to achieve Early Years Teacher Status (EYTS). This is different from Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), which is the equivalent for teaching children aged 3 to 18. 

Your training will enable you to meet the [Teachers’ Standards (Early Years)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/early-years-teachers-standards).
```

> To start early years teacher training, you’ll need these qualifications (or be able to deomnstrate an equivalent standard):

Reviewer: typo: 'deomnstrate'

> To start early years teacher training, you’ll need these qualifications (or be able to deomnstrate an equivalent standard):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start early years teacher training, you’ll need these qualifications (or to demonstrate an equivalent standard):
```

* Maths grade 4 (C)
* English grade 4 (C)
* Science grade 4 (C)

> Graduate training also requires a Bachelor’s degree with honours, class 2:2 or higher.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Graduate training also requires a 2:2 bachelor’s degree with honours or higher.
```

Reviewer: We're calling this 'graduate training' here, but should it actually be 'postgraduate training', given they've already got their undergrad degree? On Find, we call these courses 'postgraduate teacher training'.

> To apply for your early years teacher training place, please contact one of our [training providers](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/early-years-initial-teacher-training-itt-providers-and-school-direct-early-years-lead-organisations/early-years-initial-teacher-training-itt-providers-and-school-direct-lead-organisations).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Contact one of our early years training providers to apply for a place](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/early-years-initial-teacher-training-itt-providers-and-school-direct-early-years-lead-organisations/early-years-initial-teacher-training-itt-providers-and-school-direct-lead-organisations).
```

## Ways to train

$EY-undergraduate$

A full-time bachelor’s degree leading to EYTS for those studying for a degree in an early childhood-related subject. Tuition fee loans are available from [Student Finance England
(SFE)](https://www.gov.uk/student-finance).

$EY-graduate$
 

> There are also bursaries available of up to £5000 for graduates with a first class degree, £4000 for graduates with a 2:1, and £2000 for graduates with a 2:2.

Reviewer: Add commas to numbers: £5,000, £4,000 and £2,000.

> There are also bursaries available of up to £5000 for graduates with a first class degree, £4000 for graduates with a 2:1, and £2000 for graduates with a 2:2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are also bursaries available of up to £5,000 for graduates with a first class degree, £4,000 for graduates with a 2:1, and £2,000 for graduates with a 2:2.
```

> There are also bursaries available of up to £5000 for graduates with a first class degree, £4000 for graduates with a 2:1, and £2000 for graduates with a 2:2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are also bursaries available of up to £5,000 for graduates with a first class degree, £4,000 for graduates with a 2:1, and £2,000 for graduates with a 2:2.
```

 
$EY-graduate-employment$

> This one-year part-time route is for graduates working in an early years setting who need further training to meet the Teachers’ Standards (Early Years). Funding of up to £14,000 is available. This would cover course fees of up to £7000, plus £7000 for your employer, to help cover their extra costs while you train.

Reviewer: Add commas to numbers: £7,000

> This one-year part-time route is for graduates working in an early years setting who need further training to meet the Teachers’ Standards (Early Years). Funding of up to £14,000 is available. This would cover course fees of up to £7000, plus £7000 for your employer, to help cover their extra costs while you train.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This one-year part-time route is for graduates working in an early years setting who need further training to meet the Teachers’ Standards (Early Years). Funding of up to £14,000 is available. This would cover course fees of up to £7,000, plus £7,000 for your employer, to help cover their extra costs while you train.
```
